backend-comparison/README.md, before:

# Burn Benchmark

This crate allows to compare backend computation times, from tensor operations to complex models.

## burnbench CLI

This crate comes with a CLI binary called `burnbench` which can be executed via
`cargo run --release --bin burnbench`.

Note that you need to run the `release` target of `burnbench` otherwise you won't be able to share
your benchmark results.

The end of options argument `--` is used to pass arguments to the `burnbench` application. For
instance `cargo run --bin burnbench -- list` passes the `list` argument to `burnbench` effectively
calling `burnbench list`.

There is also a cargo alias `cargo bb` which simplifies the command line. The example command above
then becomes: `cargo bb list`.

### Compare across versions

This script allows you to compare the performance of different Burn versions using `burnbench -- run`.

You can specify one or more versions (or git commit revision) and provide custom `burnbench`
arguments to benchmark them.

To run the comparison, use the `compare.sh` script as follows:

```sh
./compare.sh <version1> [version2...] [-- <burnbench_args>]
```

For example, to compare version `0.16.0` and the version at commit
[`af653d9ff332c80a7887c733d0693c2f9c4cefb3`](https://github.com/tracel-ai/burn/tree/af653d9ff332c80a7887c733d0693c2f9c4cefb3)
using specific burnbench arguments:

```sh
./compare.sh 0.16.0 af653d9ff332c80a7887c733d0693c2f9c4cefb3 -- --benches unary --backends ndarray
```

This will run benchmarks on the specified versions and log the results in a timestamped file,
allowing you to compare their performance.

> **Note:** this might not work out of the box for previous versions with unspecified breaking
> changes to the API or feature flag names. We currently handle changes after the 0.16 release.

### Commands

#### List benches and backends

To list all the available benches and backends use the `list` command:

```sh
> cargo run --release --bin burnbench -- list
    Finished dev [unoptimized] target(s) in 0.10s
     Running `target/debug/burnbench list`
Available Backends:
- candle-cpu
- candle-cuda
- candle-metal
- ndarray
- ndarray-blas-accelerate
- ndarray-blas-netlib
- ndarray-blas-openblas
- tch-cpu
- tch-gpu
- wgpu
- wgpu-fusion
- wgpu-spirv
- wgpu-spirv-fusion

Available Benchmarks:
- binary
- custom-gelu
- data
- matmul
- unary
- max-pool2d
- resnet50
- load-record
- autodiff
- conv-transpose2d
- conv-transpose3d
- conv2d
- conv3d
- reduce
```

#### Run benchmarks

To run a given benchmark against a specific backend we use the `run` command with the arguments
`--benches` and `--backends` respectively. In the following example we execute the `unary` benchmark
against the `wgpu-fusion` backend:

```sh
> cargo run --release --bin burnbench -- run --benches unary --backends wgpu-fusion
```

Shorthands can be used, the following command line is the same:

```sh
> cargo run --release --bin burnbench -- run -b unary -B wgpu-fusion
```

Multiple benchmarks and backends can be passed on the same command line. In this case, all the
combinations of benchmarks with backends will be executed.

```sh
> cargo run --bin burnbench -- run --benches unary binary --backends wgpu-fusion tch-gpu
     Running `target/release/burnbench run --benches unary binary --backends wgpu-fusion wgpu`
Executing the following benchmark and backend combinations (Total: 4):
- Benchmark: unary, Backend: wgpu-fusion
- Benchmark: binary, Backend: wgpu-fusion
- Benchmark: unary, Backend: tch-gpu
- Benchmark: binary, Backend: tch-gpu
Running benchmarks...
```

By default `burnbench` uses a compact output with a progress bar which hides the compilation logs
and benchmarks results as they are executed. If a benchmark failed to run, the `--verbose` flag can
be used to investigate the error.

#### Authentication and benchmarks sharing

Burnbench can upload benchmark results to our servers so that users can share their results with the
community and we can use this information to drive the development of Burn. The results can be
explored on [Burn website][1].

Sharing results is opt-in and it is enabled with the `--share` arguments passed to the `run`
command:

```sh
> cargo run --release --bin burnbench -- run --share --benches unary --backends wgpu-fusion
```

To be able to upload results you must be authenticated. We only support GitHub authentication. To
authenticate run the `auth` command, then follow the URL to enter your device code and authorize the
Burnbench application:

```sh
> cargo run --release --bin burnbench -- auth
```

If everything is fine you should get a confirmation in the terminal that your token has been saved
to the burn cache directory.

We don't store any of your personal information. An anonymized user name will be attributed to you
and displayed in the terminal once you are authenticated. For instance:

```
🔑 Your username is: CuteFlame
```

You can now use the `--share` argument to upload and share your benchmarks. A URL to the results
will displayed at the end of the report table.

Note that your access token will be refreshed automatically so you should not need to reauthorize
the application again except if your refresh token itself becomes invalid.

## Execute benchmarks with cargo

To execute a benchmark against a given backend using only cargo is done with the `bench` command. In
this case the backend is a feature of this crate.

```sh
> cargo bench --features wgpu-fusion
```

## Add a new benchmark

To add a new benchmark it must be first declared in the `Cargo.toml` file of this crate:

```toml
[[bench]]
name = "mybench"
harness = false
```

Then it must be registered in the `BenchmarkValues` enumeration:

```rs

#[derive(Debug, Clone, PartialEq, Eq, ValueEnum, Display, EnumIter)]
pub(crate) enum BenchmarkValues {
    // ...
    #[strum(to_string = "mybench")]
    MyBench,
    // ...
}
```

Create a new file `mybench.rs` in the `benches` directory and implement the `Benchmark` trait over
your benchmark structure. Then implement the `bench` function. At last call the macro
`backend_comparison::bench_on_backend!()` in the `main` function.

## Add a new backend

You can easily register and new backend in the `BackendValues` enumeration:

```rs

#[derive(Debug, Clone, PartialEq, Eq, ValueEnum, Display, EnumIter)]
pub(crate) enum BackendValues {
    // ...
    #[strum(to_string = "mybackend")]
    MyBackend,
    // ...
}
```

Then update the macro `bench_on_backend` to support the newly registered backend.

[1]: https://burn.dev/benchmarks/community-benchmarks

Commit message:

Add note on how to handle breaking changes across versions

backend-comparison/README.md, after:

# Burn Benchmark

This crate allows to compare backend computation times, from tensor operations to complex models.

## burnbench CLI

This crate comes with a CLI binary called `burnbench` which can be executed via
`cargo run --release --bin burnbench`.

Note that you need to run the `release` target of `burnbench` otherwise you won't be able to share
your benchmark results.

The end of options argument `--` is used to pass arguments to the `burnbench` application. For
instance `cargo run --bin burnbench -- list` passes the `list` argument to `burnbench` effectively
calling `burnbench list`.

There is also a cargo alias `cargo bb` which simplifies the command line. The example command above
then becomes: `cargo bb list`.

### Compare across versions

This script allows you to compare the performance of different Burn versions using
`burnbench -- run`.

You can specify one or more versions (or git commit revision) and provide custom `burnbench`
arguments to benchmark them.

To run the comparison, use the `compare.sh` script as follows:

```sh
./compare.sh <version1> [version2...] [-- <burnbench_args>]
```

For example, to compare version `0.16.0` and the version at commit
[`af653d9ff332c80a7887c733d0693c2f9c4cefb3`](https://github.com/tracel-ai/burn/tree/af653d9ff332c80a7887c733d0693c2f9c4cefb3)
using specific burnbench arguments:

```sh
./compare.sh 0.16.0 af653d9ff332c80a7887c733d0693c2f9c4cefb3 -- --benches unary --backends ndarray
```

This will run benchmarks on the specified versions and log the results in a timestamped file,
allowing you to compare their performance.

> **Note:** this might not work out of the box for previous versions with unspecified breaking
> changes to the API or feature flag names. We currently handle changes after the 0.16 release.  
> To handle feature flag changes, you probably want to modify `compare.sh` to overwrite the
> `Cargo.toml` based on some condition. See for example
> [`replace_feature_flags_lt_0_17`](./compare.sh#L45).   
> For breaking API changes, this can be handled in the build script to add a cfg. See for example
> [`burn_version_lt_0170`](./build.rs#L372) and how it is
> [used for conditional compilation](./src/persistence/base.rs#L71).

### Commands

#### List benches and backends

To list all the available benches and backends use the `list` command:

```sh
> cargo run --release --bin burnbench -- list
    Finished dev [unoptimized] target(s) in 0.10s
     Running `target/debug/burnbench list`
Available Backends:
- candle-cpu
- candle-cuda
- candle-metal
- ndarray
- ndarray-blas-accelerate
- ndarray-blas-netlib
- ndarray-blas-openblas
- tch-cpu
- tch-gpu
- wgpu
- wgpu-fusion
- wgpu-spirv
- wgpu-spirv-fusion

Available Benchmarks:
- binary
- custom-gelu
- data
- matmul
- unary
- max-pool2d
- resnet50
- load-record
- autodiff
- conv-transpose2d
- conv-transpose3d
- conv2d
- conv3d
- reduce
```

#### Run benchmarks

To run a given benchmark against a specific backend we use the `run` command with the arguments
`--benches` and `--backends` respectively. In the following example we execute the `unary` benchmark
against the `wgpu-fusion` backend:

```sh
> cargo run --release --bin burnbench -- run --benches unary --backends wgpu-fusion
```

Shorthands can be used, the following command line is the same:

```sh
> cargo run --release --bin burnbench -- run -b unary -B wgpu-fusion
```

Multiple benchmarks and backends can be passed on the same command line. In this case, all the
combinations of benchmarks with backends will be executed.

```sh
> cargo run --bin burnbench -- run --benches unary binary --backends wgpu-fusion tch-gpu
     Running `target/release/burnbench run --benches unary binary --backends wgpu-fusion wgpu`
Executing the following benchmark and backend combinations (Total: 4):
- Benchmark: unary, Backend: wgpu-fusion
- Benchmark: binary, Backend: wgpu-fusion
- Benchmark: unary, Backend: tch-gpu
- Benchmark: binary, Backend: tch-gpu
Running benchmarks...
```

By default `burnbench` uses a compact output with a progress bar which hides the compilation logs
and benchmarks results as they are executed. If a benchmark failed to run, the `--verbose` flag can
be used to investigate the error.

#### Authentication and benchmarks sharing

Burnbench can upload benchmark results to our servers so that users can share their results with the
community and we can use this information to drive the development of Burn. The results can be
explored on [Burn website][1].

Sharing results is opt-in and it is enabled with the `--share` arguments passed to the `run`
command:

```sh
> cargo run --release --bin burnbench -- run --share --benches unary --backends wgpu-fusion
```

To be able to upload results you must be authenticated. We only support GitHub authentication. To
authenticate run the `auth` command, then follow the URL to enter your device code and authorize the
Burnbench application:

```sh
> cargo run --release --bin burnbench -- auth
```

If everything is fine you should get a confirmation in the terminal that your token has been saved
to the burn cache directory.

We don't store any of your personal information. An anonymized user name will be attributed to you
and displayed in the terminal once you are authenticated. For instance:

```
🔑 Your username is: CuteFlame
```

You can now use the `--share` argument to upload and share your benchmarks. A URL to the results
will displayed at the end of the report table.

Note that your access token will be refreshed automatically so you should not need to reauthorize
the application again except if your refresh token itself becomes invalid.

## Execute benchmarks with cargo

To execute a benchmark against a given backend using only cargo is done with the `bench` command. In
this case the backend is a feature of this crate.

```sh
> cargo bench --features wgpu-fusion
```

## Add a new benchmark

To add a new benchmark it must be first declared in the `Cargo.toml` file of this crate:

```toml
[[bench]]
name = "mybench"
harness = false
```

Then it must be registered in the `BenchmarkValues` enumeration:

```rs

#[derive(Debug, Clone, PartialEq, Eq, ValueEnum, Display, EnumIter)]
pub(crate) enum BenchmarkValues {
    // ...
    #[strum(to_string = "mybench")]
    MyBench,
    // ...
}
```

Create a new file `mybench.rs` in the `benches` directory and implement the `Benchmark` trait over
your benchmark structure. Then implement the `bench` function. At last call the macro
`backend_comparison::bench_on_backend!()` in the `main` function.

## Add a new backend

You can easily register and new backend in the `BackendValues` enumeration:

```rs

#[derive(Debug, Clone, PartialEq, Eq, ValueEnum, Display, EnumIter)]
pub(crate) enum BackendValues {
    // ...
    #[strum(to_string = "mybackend")]
    MyBackend,
    // ...
}
```

Then update the macro `bench_on_backend` to support the newly registered backend.

[1]: https://burn.dev/benchmarks/community-benchmarks
